Welcome! If you are here, you have BrotherMunro's Dreadnoughts Improvement Mod. This submod adds a few "small", cheap craft, historically used for convoy escort or colonial patrol purposes.

The Sloops and Advisos submod adds new ships starting around 1920 in the Torpedo Boat class, utilizing extremely cheap ships; good for navies on a budget, but perhaps not good in actual combat.

This submod is a work in progress and is not complete yet. Here's what I need to do:
* Adjust balancing
* Add a few more hulls for some nations

Info on each hull:
* Sloop/Frigate/Corvette I (1921) and Sloop/Frigate/Corvette II (1930) are small, very cheap hulls, and are meant to provide an emergency last resort defense for ports and convoys, in conjunction to any armored transports you may have, and perhaps an odd destroyer or two. It will lose battles if left alone, but if working in collaboration with a destroyer and the guns on armed transports, it may deal some damage to a raiding destroyer force, and might be able to drive off a very small raiding torpedo boat on its own. These are emergency ships, to be spammed out, placed in remote colonial ports, and forgotten about. This hull is available to most nations. While most of the towers available to these ships are the standard selection, there are a few extreme "mercantile" options derived from transport ships, which offer performance marginally better than the worst regular tower but far worse than the best regular tower, with a significantly cheaper price tag, but worse weight.
* Gunboat (1921) is a small, fairly cheap hull, meant to provide an emergency last resort defense for ports and convoys, much like the Sloop/Frigate/Corvette hulls. However, their extended length does allow a creative player to perhaps make the ship marginally better. They also lack access to the "mercantile" tower options, and so will generally be a bit more expensive than the sloop/frigate/corvette hulls. These hulls are still but a miniscule fraction of the cost of a destroyer, though, and are very solid economic options to dump in ports to provide nominal protection against a small raiding torpedo boat or destroyer. Still, they are not expected to stand up for very long against a large destroyer or beyond. This hull is available to Japan and Korea.
* Guard Ship (1921) is essentially the Russian equivalent of the Japanese Gunboat. While far cheaper, it is by far the smallest hull available. These retain somewhat better optimal design speeds, but with a very small hull, they are extremely limited in what can be fitted. They are essentially small torpedo-carrying craft, and will likely lose against pretty much anything with an actual array of guns to use. They also suffer from a fairly heavy hull base weight. This hull is available to Russia and Greece.
* Modern Small Torpedo Boat (1921) is a very small hull comparable to the early torpedo boat hulls in size and capability. They have an extremely high optimal speed, and can be used as a poor man's destroyer in a pinch - but will rapidly lose a gunfight against pretty much anything with guns of its own. Their high speed and very small size however can allow for some limited use in a battlefleet as a mobile torpedo launcher, should the user not quite have the funds to afford a lot of destroyers. This hull is available to Germany, Austria, Spain, Turkey, and the Netherlands.
* Aviso (1921) is the largest of the included hulls, and has a displacement rivaling small destroyers; however, they come in at a fraction of the cost of a destroyer. They are essentially colonial patrol ships, guarding far-flung colonial outposts. They do not have the same high optimal design speed as a destroyer, but offer a hull that can mount destroyer-grade guns and torpedoes. With said space for firepower, they can be used to provide limited protection to a convoy or port against a destroyer, although large destroyers will probably overpower these ships. They are best used to protect ports and convoys in remote areas with little to no hostile activity, since their presence will prevent uncontested port strikes and convoy losses. This hull is available to Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, and Turkey.

This submod makes minor edits to your ships; I have tried to avoid making any changes that would affect base mod ships. As this submod is still a work in progress and balancing changes are to be expected, I do not recommend making shared designs for these ships at this time.

All versions of this submod will be saved and backed up here; however this submod was created when 3a13 was the current version and I will not be making versions for any DIP version older than this. You may freely use this in your own work. I appreciate credit but it is not necessary.

To use, simply download all of these files, then replace the mod's original files with matching names with these. The genArmorDefaults file is optional, but helps the AI with generating properly armored ships, it should replace the original in the TAFData folder.

If you enjoy the submod, consider trying out my other submod for DIP: https://github.com/Omnisxiii2/HMaLSN-submod-for-DIP
